TODO / Roadmap:

If you have any suggestions or comments, feel free to contact me on the mailing
list or directly per mail. Even if a feature is listed here already it might
speed up the implementation if you tell me that you'd like its addition ;)


=== Roadmap ===

1.5
O Add formulas
  X Preview Latex formulas
  X Use local mathjax installation if it is installed (package libjs-mathjax)
  O Highlight formulas in edit mode
  X Support Latex export
  X Write common webview class
  O Support PDF export
  O Add menu item for inserting formulas

1.x
X Resize an image by adding ?width to the filename (e.g. [""file:///home/user/pic"".png?50])
X Tables
  X Highlight tables in edit mode
  O Use art target for text exports (Wait for txt2tags 2.7)
X Numbered lists
X Add quotes by indenting them with a tab
O Edit templates inside of RedNotebook. On Windows wordpad and notepad do not save to utf-8.
  Do the editing in the normal edit window and not in an extra frame, because it's cooler and easier.
O Use standard paths on Windows (C:\Docs & Settings\username\My Documents)
X Show warning if last backup dates to more than one month before
O Make default css prettier
O Think about supporting %include, %preprocess, etc.
O Scroll to searched text when a result is clicked in preview mode
O Automated backups
O Fix link highlighting ([this does not work] and
  [This is a link http://txt2tags.sourceforge.net/] highlights wrong part.)
O Divide the search results into results for text entries and results for tags?
O Ensure that shortcuts work under Windows


O Use Zeitgeist for automatic category entries
  X Music tracks or albums (Wrote decibel zeitgeist addon, addons for other players available)
  X Movies
  X Web History (Firefox addon written by zeitgeist devs)
  X Documents, Pictures
  O Mails (Write Thunderbird zeitgeist addon)
  X Twitter Messages (gwibber zeitgeist addon written by zeitgeist devs)

O Imports
  X RedNotebook Backup zipfile
  X RedNotebook data directory
  X Plain text files
  O ics (used by Google Calendar)
  O Almanah
  O Lifeograph
  O Evernote
  O Wordpress?
  O Treepad?
  X Tomboy

  O Suggest input encoding, but let user set it afterwards

O Fix status icon on XFCE (LP:525196)
O Custom-style Journals? (Allow custom css files for preview rendering, e.g. Mono-space)
  Use css for blockquote, tables, etc.
O Consider using apport
O Remove support for the notification area on Linux (http://design.canonical.com/2010/04/notification-area/)
O Windows: Enable spellcheck
O Translate help (Restructure first using Sphinx?)
O Rethink logfile
O Use argparse instead of optparse (wait for argparse availability, remove IndentedHelpFormatterWithNL)
O Install .mo files (translations) in the standard directories (wait for distutils2)
O Make windows installer truly portable (leave no traces in registry)
O Possibility to show all entries (Search for "*" or show all entries if no text has been entered)
O Create mono icon for panel?
O Upgrade txt2tags from 2.6b to 2.7 (Do not update to 2.6 to save some work)
O Add shortcut to move the cursor into the main text area
O Make txt2tags faster and fix bugs

O Separate page and textarea instead of textbox for black- and white list?
O Color submenu in format menu with additional color picker and color highlighting in edit mode
O Search and replace (useful for renaming categories and other names)
  (Add replace functionality after search has been entered)


2.0
O Copy all files and pictures into data subdirectory (Think about new format first)
O Password protection or encryption (Think about new format first)
O Internal links to other days
O Let user change font, foreground color, highlighting color
O Filter exports by tags
O RTF export
O Use json instead of yaml




=== Maybe even some of those features will make it into RedNotebook ===

O Automatic insertion of photo links for current day (use zeitgeist or tracker to search hard-disk for photos)
O Automatic insertion of holidays (Search a website for holidays and display them in the category "Holidays")
O Picture slide show in one entry with many images (in preview show nice
  javascript slide show of pics in linked picture directory) (Think about new format first)
O HTML import?
O Include startup date patch? (LP:655381, https://sourceforge.net/apps/phpbb/rednotebook/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=121)
O Ability to make certain entries, eg. birthdays, with frequencies
O Plugin system?
O Think about using desktop-couch?
O Entries without dates (bookmarks, contact lists)?
O When the annotate button is selected or if a search is made, the previously
  selected annotation or search category should be selected.
O Add more shortcuts for insertions (e.g. horizontal lines)
O Copy/paste annotations between different days
O Drag and drop annotations on the same day
O Improve startup time by showing the window and doing the rest of the initialization
  in an idle loader.
O Syntaxhighlighting support (pygments?)
O Support for 'inline files': read content from file upon preview of page and
  add the contents of the file inline (which allowes for 'dynamic' content).

O The concepts of insert and format can be unified for most entities this way:
  If text is selected, formatting occurs (à la present-day format command).
  This feature can be applied also to headings, lists, file/web links.
  Otherwise, standard insertion occurs. A few features are meant exclusively
  for this purpose (e.g. horizontal separator).

O Support %!include macro?
O Let user change the style of the preview and the clouds

O I would like to be able to delete items from my categories list on the left side.
  At the moment if I want to delete multiple items from my todo list, I have to click on one,
  scroll to the right, right click and press delete, scroll back the left, and repeat.
O It would be great to be able to change the category of an item without having to delete
  it and make a new one. Maybe with a rightclick or drag and drop.
O Field or shortcut to enter a date and takes you there.
O Check if Ctrl-Z still works or make sure we have a buffer for each day.
O Add numberOfCloudWords config option. A value of 0 means, only tags are displayed.

O Promote usage of #hash_tag in entries without adding any extra code for it (like twitter),
  when searching for #hash_tag, we can jump directly to the relevant position in the body.



=== Features that will **not** be implemented ===

- ``monospaced`` (we only want one font)
- verbatim / raw ( """/"" - supported, undocumented) (too confusing / poorly behaving)
- remote pictures (pictures would have to be downloaded and saved in a folder for exports)
- dataDir Lock (for multiple TRN instances) (unneeded)
- Tags in text entries (e.g. @film:Batman) (KISS)
- Copy/Paste category entries (Too complicated)
- Add --portable command line parameter (The default config file is better)
- word wrapping while editing category entries (too complicated, would involve writing C code)
- Language selection for spell checking (is already implemented in new versions of gtkspell)
- Todo tab next to clouds (KISS)
- Automatic Backups (KISS, intruding, gentle messages are better)
- Rethink linebreaks? (Changing paragraphs in txt2tags will probably crash
  everything, Current behaviour should be fine)
- allow opening config file from within RedNotebook
  (Probably no good idea as some options might be unavailable or confusing)
- Make the Format button remember its last action -> No, current behaviour good enough.
- Tabs for different notebooks (KISS)
- Add option for time interval between automatic savings? (KISS)
- Let user select the language for RedNotebook in Windows installer (User wants his win language)
- Get proper file layout with one script not part of module (Everything works without name clashes)
- Use threads for file loading and link opening (Probably a bad idea since threads are a source of errors)
- List recently opened journals under "Journal" -> "Recently Used" (KISS, config option needed)
- Drag and Drop for Windows (gtk inter application dnd isn't implemented on win32)
- Use configobj for config files (KISS, Never change A running system ;)
- Search for multiple words at the same time (KISS)
- For each journal to have its own templates (KISS)
- Let the Search type selection remember the selection between sessions (KISS)
- Let the Annotate and Tag window box remember their positions between sessions (KISS)
- Select template file when clicking the button instead of adding weekday's file
- Use categories for number data and present it graphically (KMs, Cash, Calories) (KISS)
- Check for duplicates in cloud blacklists (Does not make much sense since each word
  can only be right-clicked once in the cloud)
- Right-click on word in main text area to add it to cloud whitelist
  (Functionality will be difficult to find, would have to be implemented for
  preview as well)
- Image resizing with PIL (The width parameter is more useful)
- Use attributes for formatting glade strings for easier translation
  (requires gtk+-2.16 and does not make much sense now that all strings have been translated)
- Move the "update application" command into the help menu (central place for the checking is better)
- Use a custom config.t2t per diary (https://sourceforge.net/apps/phpbb/rednotebook/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=126)
  (This will be overkill for most users and having a data subdirectory for images etc. will suffice)
- Add per journal configuration? (This makes things more difficult for the user)
- Open the exported file after the export? (No other program does that)
- Monitor clipboard and add all copied stuff into RedNotebook in "clip mode" (unintuitive, KISS)
- Generalize tags to "hierarchical tags" (This is the job of outliners)
- Add additional one-click menu (like the one with Search and Tags Cloud) that
  contains quick links to other journals
  (https://sourceforge.net/apps/phpbb/rednotebook/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=23) (KISS)
